Document public API conventions (#1295)
pq-code-package/mldsa-native: API-CONVENTIONS.md

[//]: # (SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-4.0)

# API conventions

This document describes conventions shared by all public functions declared in [`mldsa/mldsa_native.h`](mldsa/mldsa_native.h). The per-function documentation in that header takes precedence wherever it is more specific.

## Return values

Functions returning `int` return `0` on success and a negative `MLD_ERR_*` constant (see `mldsa_native.h`) on failure. Return values must always be checked; the public API is annotated with `warn_unused_result` on compilers that support it.

> For the signature verification, `MLD_ERR_FAIL` reports that the signature is invalid. This is an expected outcome, not an internal error.

Reviewer: Suggest to elaborate a bit.

```
Functions returning `int` return `0` on success and a negative error code on failure. 
Error codes are enumerated as `MLD_ERR_*` in `mldsa_native.h`.

Errors have different origins, and not all are fatal. For example, signature verification 
routines use `MLD_ERR_FAIL` to signal an invalid signature; signing hooks use
`MLD_ERR_SIGNING_PAUSED` to signal a paused signature operation. 
Other errors, such as `MLD_ERR_SIGN_ATTEMPTS_EXHAUSTED` or 
`MLD_ERR_RNG_FAIL`, should never be observed in normal operation, and hint at 
a deeper failure in the system. 

Return values must always be checked; the public API is annotated with 
`warn_unused_result` on compilers that support it.
```

## Pointer arguments

> All pointer arguments are assumed to be valid and non-NULL, and every buffer is assumed to have the size implied by its parameter type and the relevant `MLDSA*_*BYTES` constant. mldsa-native does not check pointers for NULL and does not validate buffer sizes; passing a NULL or otherwise invalid pointer, or an undersized buffer, is undefined behavior. Ensuring these preconditions is the caller's responsibility.

Reviewer: non-NULL is only required for positive lengths

Reviewer: Drop "and the relevant ... constant"?

> The one exception is the context argument paired with a length: `ctx` may be NULL when `ctxlen == 0`. Such cases are called out in the per-function documentation.

Reviewer: Did you deliberately omit the length checks?

[//]: # (SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-4.0)

# API conventions

This document describes conventions shared by all public functions declared in [`mldsa/mldsa_native.h`](mldsa/mldsa_native.h). The per-function documentation in that header takes precedence wherever it is more specific.

## Return values

Functions returning `int` return `0` on success and a negative error code on failure. Error codes are enumerated as `MLD_ERR_XXX` constants in `mldsa_native.h`.

Errors have different origins, and not all are fatal. For example, signature verification routines use `MLD_ERR_FAIL` to signal an invalid signature, and signing hooks use `MLD_ERR_SIGNING_PAUSED` to signal a paused signing operation. Other errors, such as `MLD_ERR_SIGN_ATTEMPTS_EXHAUSTED` or `MLD_ERR_RNG_FAIL`, should never be observed in normal operation and hint at a deeper failure in the system.

Return values must always be checked; the public API is annotated with `warn_unused_result` on compilers that support it.

## Pointer arguments

> All pointer arguments are assumed to be valid and non-NULL, and every buffer is assumed to have the size implied by its parameter type. mldsa-native does not check pointers for NULL and does not validate buffer sizes; passing a NULL or otherwise invalid pointer, or an undersized buffer, is undefined behavior. Ensuring these preconditions is the caller's responsibility.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All pointers to non-empty buffers are assumed to be valid and non-NULL, and every buffer is assumed to have the size implied by its parameter type or associated length parameter. mldsa-native does not conduct pointer validity checks such as NULL comparisons; passing a NULL or otherwise invalid pointer, or an undersized buffer, is undefined behavior. Ensuring these preconditions is the caller's responsibility.
```
